core: Update team page with some processes (#510)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/core-services/index.md

# Code services team

## Vision statement

Sourcegraph operations are fast (e.g. search), instances scale to 80k repositories, private code is secure and respects ACLs for every authorization provider, and the product settings are easy to set up and understand for our largest customers.

## Tech stack

Go, Postgres, Redis, Docker, Kubernetes.

## Resources

- [Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cBsE9801DcBF9chZyMnxRdolqM_1c2pPyGQz15QAvYI/edit#heading=h.fv5i7qi85bru)
- [Tracking Issues](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3Ateam%2Fcore-services+label%3Atracking)

## Processes

### Weekly check-ins

> Everyone writes a weekly check-in at the end of each Friday in the active tracking issue of the on-going iteration. These check-ins describe the work done in the previous week as well as what's to come in the next week.

Reviewer: Slightly nitpicky, but the last two times we did this Friday _and_ Monday. The "good weekly check-in" you link to below was also made on a Monday.

Reviewer 2: Just an idea, could we say "(xx hours) before the core services team sync"? It's more closer to the sync with most recent updated status. Or should we post updates (edit comment/another comment) after Friday one if any?

Author: The Friday schedule is intentional, but up for discussion. My thought is that it provides for a great way to wrap-up the week and think about what you'll want to do in the next one, allowing your brain to shut-off from work for the weekend (tip from the Deep Work book).

Reviewer 3: I personally prefer Monday for planning and reflecting on the previous week. In practice that is what people have been doing. I like @unknwon suggestion, maybe include what you suggest with motivation for why Friday is useful. But I'd like to stick with Mondays.

> This process helps each team mate reflect and plan each week proactively and enables other parts of the organization to have visibility into on-going progress.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This process helps each teammate reflect and plan each week proactively and enables other parts of the organization to have visibility into on-going progress.
```

Here's an example of a [good weekly check-in](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/7190#issuecomment-573564817).

### Monthly planning

Planning happens monthly in the last week of the current iteration to match [Sourcegraph's monthly release cycle](../releases/index.md).

> The team manager and a senior team mate set-up a block of time together to triage all open issues [labeled with **team/core-services**](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Ateam%2Fcore-services).

Reviewer 4: This phrasing does beg the question: "who is the senior teammate and why is not everyone included in this"? I think it would be better to make this more general.

```suggestion
The team manager schedules a block of time to triage all open issues [labeled with **team/core-services**](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Ateam%2Fcore-services) and may request that certain teammates help with this process.
```

Author: > Who is the senior teammate and why is not everyone included in this

It has been @keegancsmith because he has the most context to do this triaging process. We don't do group triage because it'd be a waste of everyone's time. Note, that this doesn't exclude teammates from proposing other work for the iteration — in fact, that's asked of everyone once the tracking issue is drafted (documented below).

> The team manager and another senior engineer set-up a block of time together to triage all open issues [labeled with **team/core-services**](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Ateam%2Fcore-services).

Author: ```suggestion
The team manager and a senior team mate set-up a block of time together to triage all open issues [labeled with **team/core-services**](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Ateam%2Fcore-services).
```

Each issue is:

- Closed if appropriate.
- Commented on if it's unclear what next steps are.
- Assigned to the up-coming milestone if deemed a priority.

> - Left in the backlog otherwise.

Reviewer 2: Is this valid: break up the issue if it helps with estimation and fit into planning, i.e. the idea in the original issue was too broad.

Author: Yes, good one! I'll add this.

Author: Actually, we already talk about that in the context of roadmap items and spikes below, so I think it'd be redundant to have it here as well.

Every issue assigned to the upcoming milestone needs to be:

1. Assigned to a single owner.

> 1. Estimated with one of the **estimate/Nd** labels.

Reviewer 4: More detail on how to think about these estimates would be helpful. Are they supposed to be best case, worst case, expected case, etc.

> 1. Categorized with any combination of these labels: **spike**, **roadmap**, **bug**, **debt**, **customer**.

Reviewer 4: Please define what each of these labels mean.

> After this triage process, the team manager puts together a draft tracking issue (based on previous tracking issues) containing this initial proposed work for the iteration.

Reviewer 4: > (based on previous tracking issues)

It isn't clear to me what this parenthetical means.

Author: It just meant that we copy the previous tracking issue's structure, but this isn't substantial, so doesn't need to be here. I'll remove it.

At this point, everyone on the team is asked to:

1. Update their availability for the month in the Not Working calendar and write down the number of working days in the designated section in the tracking issue.

> 1. Propose other work for the iteration in a comment in the tracking issue. Each proposed work item must be captured in separate GitHub issue that is assigned to the right owner, estimated, and categorized as per the above mentioned requirements.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Propose other work for the iteration in a comment in the tracking issue. Each proposed work item must be captured in a separate GitHub issue that is assigned to the right owner, estimated, and categorized as per the above mentioned requirements.
```

All planned work items are meant to be finished in the iteration. If this doesn't happen, it is either due to unknown unknowns or lack of estimating accuracy. While we cannot work on the former, we can on the latter — over time, we aim to estimate better.

Estimation has a bad reputation in some circles, but we find it valuable to:

1. Prevent any single team member having more work assigned than available work days.
1. Ensure everyone has enough slack in the iteration (~20% of their time). This is to account for unexpected things, to foster creativity and to prevent burn-out.
1. Remind the person working on the issue to avoid time sinks or approaches that would miss the estimate.

Roadmap items may take more than an iteration to implement. As such please link to an issue which is scoped to this iteration. If it isn't clear how to break down a larger item in a scope increment, a **spike** of one or two days could be appropriate to determine such scope and then create the resulting issues for the iteration — it's fine to update the tracking issue with the results of a spike during the iteration.

> After the internal discussion of the team's work plan for the iteration ends, the tracking issue is ready to be *reviewed* by external stake-holders. The team manager asks for +1s from Product and the VP of Engineering.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After the internal discussion of the team's work plan for the iteration ends, the tracking issue is ready to be *reviewed* by external stake-holders. The team manager asks for +1s from the relevant [Product Manager](../../product/roles.md#product-manager) and the [VP of Engineering](../roles.md#vp-engineering).
```

After adjusting the work plan according to their feedback (if necessary), the team manager marks the tracking issue as final.

> The tracking issue body will be frequently updated throughout this process and the iteration [with a tool](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/master/internal/cmd/tracking-issue/main.go) that removes the need for manually updating it — team members are only required to handle the GitHub issues themselves.

Reviewer 4: To the extent that this tool is used to create the tracking issue instead of just updating it, I think it would be useful to first mention this tool earlier in the document where creating the tracking issue is discussed.
